Today, May 20, marks our 26th Twitter For Good Day, a company-wide biannual day when Tweeps around the world  come together for the communities that we serve. Every day, the Twitter for Good team brings company and community together as a force for good through various partnerships and activations. However, on Twitter for Good Day, everyone at Twitter is encouraged to participate in activities that benefit their local communities. This year marks a return for many to in-person volunteering, something that was largely paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Because of the pandemic, our teams were able to adapt and still hold four virtual Twitter for Good Days.

Whether it’s training students in online safety and media literacy skills, serving meals and playing bingo with seniors, or conducting mock interviews with aspiring tech professionals, Twitter for Good Day is a chance to get out and learn about our neighbors and collectively make a difference where we live and work. Follow #TwitterForGood to see what’s happening around the world.

Milestones for our employee matching program

Today also marks a total of $10 million dollars donated through our employee matching program since its launch in August of 2018. Since its inception, the program has evolved significantly, including a ten-fold increase in the number of organizations we support. Tweeps have been especially successful at launching their own personal campaigns, raising dollars from friends and family to then use against our employee match. 

During major world events, we’ve also increased the number of dollars matched by Twitter, surging to match three times the amount donated during events of particular interest to Tweeps and in support of causes and organizations they care about. Thus far, our employees have donated to 3,318 organizations in 50 countries.

Launching ArtHouse for Good

ArtHouse, Twitter’s in-house content creation team for brands, and Twitter for Good have joined forces to launch ArtHouse for Good, a new social impact initiative that helps nonprofit organizations amplify their voice on Twitter.

Over the past year, we’ve collaborated with partners around the world to elevate their content through pro bono, world-class creative content production and consultation. This includes editing and optimizing content, bringing in  talented artists and creators, and providing strategic guidance around best practices on Twitter. We’ve also worked in lockstep with our creative colleagues on Twitter NEXT to bring these projects to life. Here are a few examples: 

Promoting environmental conservation with IPAM Amazoni

We partnered with the Amazon Environmental Research Institute (IPAM) to raise awareness of the deforestation crisis happening in the Amazon forest. The key element of the campaign was to create and introduce a new persona to the Twitter timeline: Maya.

Maya was created as a new and innovative way to connect with audiences on Twitter through IPAM’s handle. Our team worked with activist, creator, and journalist Alice Pataxó to develop Maya’s voice and tone, and collaborated with creative agency, Clint Studio, to bring Maya to life through illustrations and artistry. 

Amplifying Dalit History Month with the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights

For Dalit History Month in India, we worked with the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR) to showcase, highlight and support the presence and work of 5 key nonprofit partners from India focused on supporting marginalized communities and furthering their voices, both on and off the service. Optimized content that was produced for this campaign resulted in over 11 million impressions and over 500K Tweet engagements.¹ 

Responding to the war in Ukraine with Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF)

Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and with millions of individuals fleeing the country, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) worked quickly to respond to the humanitarian crisis on the ground. Our team of in-house video producers re-imagined their content, drove awareness of their efforts and raised critical funds. This included highlighting MSF’s vital work to resupply hospitals, engage MSF surgery and emergency medical teams, and assist those fleeing war zones. To see more on our work around the war in Ukraine, click here.

What’s next?

At Twitter, we’re committed to uniting profit and purpose and harnessing the power of our company to strengthen healthy public conversation. To learn more about Twitter ArtHouse and Twitter for Good, follow @ArtHouse and @TwitterForGood and read more about our initiatives here.